# Pluto Engineering Guidelines

- Having “Code Owners” is a good idea. These people own sections of code and are needed to review PRs that change that set of code. They should be giving detailed reviews and get final say on what is okay and what is not. This also means that the Code Owner is responsible for issues that arise in their owned sections
- PRs should really always close an issue, even if the issue is created after the PR is made. However, issues should really, really, be created prior. Though they likely cannot always be (unknown unknowns, after all).
- Rebasing is an act of love, and we love each other. We only rebase now. Nothing else is okay.
- Scope of a PR should not be expanded once started. People expect certain tasks to appear in a timely manner, and task expansion slows this down and can cause great headache.
- CI testing should be robust and prevent breaking changes. Focusing on this early and making the tools general is important. We should have a repository (or something) dedicated to a general suite of CI workflows that can be used as templates for any other repositories we create. Main branch should never, ever, ever, be broken. Likewise, CI should test from a completely “new build” state so that we know an end user of a repository will have success cloning/forking. It would be handy to also have a local CI setup so that this is checked prior to push to origin.
- Refactoring while “the code is hot” is a good idea, but it should be something accepted by the other code contributors. Often times refactoring during another task can be bad for the other people who need to base their work off the incoming feature. If there is less expectation of others, then refactoring while the codepath is open is acceptable.
- Issues/PRs should attempt to state quite clearly where they expect to alter the codebase. If they need to expand out of original expectation, then this also needs to be something that is made known and discussed due to downstream effects. It’s probably better to over-scope what paths are hit for a given issue/PR than to under-scope it.
- Extra care should be taken while “the code is hot” to produce code that is more extensible and clear. Otherwise, this incurs a continuously growing pile of tech debt that ultimately leads to a need for wide scale refactoring. An extra hour while the code is hot could save tens of hours later on. This is a case where moving a bit more slowly can make us all move a bit more quickly.
- On documentation: Even a small amount of documentation on modules, structs, functions, etc. can be very helpful for the review process and for others to use it later. At some point, someone external to us will want to use our code and we will owe them documentation. We may as well do it as we go rather than have to do it all at once later. This is yet again another case where striking while the code is hot is important. For example, documenting a function prior to even writing it is something that helps one think through what is actually going on and where this is needed. Then when it is all said and done, the documentation is already there and when the person who wrote the function forgot why they wrote it (happens all the time), the hover over will remind them.
- [Make it work, make it right, make it fast.](https://wiki.c2.com/?MakeItWorkMakeItRightMakeItFast)
- [How to build quickly](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41148517): Do “outline speedrunning”: Recursively outline an MVP, speedrun filling it in, and only then go back and perfect.
- A little bit of planning goes a long way: [Tactical Tornado vs Strategic programming.](https://milkov.tech/assets/psd.pdf)
- We do not implement any cryptography in JavaScript.